


Record date: 2089-10-02


ORLH
79 Kessler Farm Drive                                        Nicholas-Xavier, Fred
White Hall, MN 76715                                      65856594
(959) 149-6104                                           10/02/89


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Nicholas Xavier is a
76-year-old male who presented to Orlando Regional this
evening for diabetes followup.  He denies any known drug
allergies and at present, he is taking Feratab 300 mg
t.i.d., Motrin 600 mg q.8h. p.r.n., Benadryl 50 mg q.h.s.
p.r.n., Zestril 5 mg q.d., glyburide 2.5 mg q.d., and
aspirin 325 mg q.o.d.  The patient has been followed fairly
frequently in the clinic recently for diabetic foot ulcers
on his right foot, between his 4th and 5th toe.  This
evening, he presents with worsening ulcers in that area and
also a new ulcer between his 3rd and 4th toes.  It has not
improved with good skin care and application of bacitracin;
in fact, it has worsened.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: He denies any bleeding with brushing of
his teeth.  He denies any palpitations or chest pain.  He
denies any shortness of breath or cough.  He denies any
nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or constipation.  He states that
his bowel movements have become darkened secondary to his
iron intake.  He denies any symptoms of frequency or
nocturia, no burning, itching, or pain with urination.  He
states that he has occasional elbow pain, which is relieved
with Motrin.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: His temperature is 97.8 degrees, his
pulse is 88, his blood pressure is 135/65, weight is 141
pounds, and his random blood sugar is 159.  He states that
he did not take his medication today.  His heart has a
regular rate and rhythm at 88.  Lungs are clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  There are bruises noted on his
right hand and left upper arm, but he states that both of
these were related to trauma.  Examination of his feet
revealed his toes to be more reddened and somewhat shiny,
shinier than previous visits.  They were cool to touch.  On
his right foot, there was a new dime-sized blister on the
4th toe, and the toe that bordered his 3rd toe, and on the
other side.  There was an increase in the size on the toe
ulcer and also on the ulcer on his 5th toe.  Scant amount of
drainage was noted from the toe areas.  Mr. Nicholas Xavier
is vigilant with his foot care and has been so.  This is
definite worsening of his symptoms.  Posterior tibial pulses
are present.

ASSESSMENT
1. Noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
2. Diabetic foot ulcers on 4th toe, both sides, and 5th toe.

PLAN: Arterial vascular studies with Doppler imaging to be
done.  Referral to surgical clinic for evaluation of his
ulcers.  He was given a prescription for Xeroform gauze to
be used twice daily and dressing changes were explained to
him.  He was instructed to return to clinic in one month for
followup.


______________________________
Ximena Utter, NP


CC:

eScription document:0-927126 PQ  Focus

DD: 10/02/89
DT: 10/03/89
DV: 10/02/89



